Independent Review Report, Reviewer 2
EVALUATION
Please summarize the hypothesis, findings and viewpoint reported.

The development of universal influenza vaccine remains a major challenge
not only due to the rapidly evolving mutations in the virus but also
their ability to misguide the host immune response towards the variable
epitopes while protecting the achilles' heel found in the conserved stem
region from the immune attack. In their theoretical hypothesis
manuscript, Ovchinnikov and Karplus presented a coarse-grained
computational and showed how B-cell receptor binding valency (avidity)
affects the growth and affinity maturation of competing B-cells in
germinal center reaction. These results supported the notion of effective
epitope concentration via design of custom immunogens or cocktail fashion
to elicit bnAbs to target the subdominant epitopes of stem region. Please
highlight the limitations and strengths. The limitation is obviously that
its a coarse-grained model. Still, it is a first in kind of attempt with
improved parameters to build a computational model to address a key
question for the universal flu vaccine. 

Please comment on the reported

Please see Q5. I checked the suppl. figures and tables that are working.
I suggested to add a few references. 

The development of universal influenza vaccine remains a major challenge
not only due to the rapidly evolving mutations in the virus but also
their ability to misguide the host immune response towards the variable
epitopes while protecting the achilles' heel found in the conserved stem
region from the immune attack. In their theoretical hypothesis
manuscript, Ovchinnikov and Karplus presented a coarse-grained
computational and showed how B-cell receptor binding valency (avidity)
affects the growth and affinity maturation of competing B-cells in
germinal center reaction. They surveyed all related literature and
captured the experimental parameters and motivation required for building
the computational model and addressing a topical issue of universal
vaccine design for the influenza virus. They relied on the classical work
of Perelson’ model of optimizing somatic hypermutation in B cells during
affinity maturation. Among several factors possibly contributing to the
challenges in vaccine design, the epitope subdominance appears to a
critical factor which the authors have investigated here by using their
models. The idea of immune holes as a possible mechanism which a virus
like HIV-1 can use to evade immune response was first hypothesized and
tested by Dimitrov group (PMID: 19748484) that needs to be cited at the
context.

ATHOR REPLY: We now mention and cite the Dimotrov et al study (ref #21) in the
introduction, where low germline precursor frequency is discussed as a
cause of subdominance (line 59)

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES:
germline precursor antibodies able to bind the epitopes in question(20),
which is related to the idea of ``holes'' in the human BCR repertoire,
exploited by HIV to protect its conserved regions [Xiao09]

As antigen-antibody complexes is a very large system, authors’ choice of
coarse-graining model and its ability to investigate comparing multiple
competing epitope/paratope pairs in the context of B cell and antibody
production and affinity for antigen were commendable. The authors may
also benefit from the recent work of Chakraborty et al. (PMID: 33031741)
by referring and commenting to their computational model of affinity
maturation although they dealt with the HA. 

AUTHOR REPLY:
The present manuscript already refers to this publication (Amitai et al
2020, old ref #21, new ref#22) in several places (e.g. introduction lines
60, 68, where we also mention their major finding that the the rate of
bivalent binding to the HA stem  is low compared to the HA head due to
steric constraints).  No related modifications were made in the revision.

Also, this one, PMID:
32866963 to comment adding about GC engaging both naïve and memory B
cells and implications. 


AUTHOR REPLY: We now mention the citation (new ref #) in Results (line 196) :

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES: A recent study comparing the early plasmablast (PB)
response with GC B cells obtained by fine-needle aspiration, found a
variable and sometimes large clonal overlap (12\% - 88\%) between B cells
in the PB pool and those in the GC, suggesting that substantial 
recruitment of MBCs into GCs is possible [Turner20].

Adjuvants and Calcium signaling on the B cell
activation are two major factors that may need to be mentioned too.

AUTHOR REPLY: We now mention these factors at the end of the discussion section (line 380) :

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES: The effects of adjuvants on B-cell activation can be modeled by
parametrizing the B-cell activation function $h$ (see Methods) to include
adjuvant concentration, or by incorporating the latter into a T helper cell model.
Similar ideas could be used to include the effects of soluble signaling
species, such as interleukins or Calcium ions.



The main finding of this manuscript about the B cell receptors that are
unable to bind antigen bivalently, or cooperatively have significantly
slower rates of growth, memory B-cell production and rates of affinity
maturation. Thus, those B-cells were predicted to be outcompeted by
B-cells that bind bivalently and cooperatively. Though this notion is
known and shown experimentally somewhere, this study used a first kind of
computational model focusing on different aspects of B cells (GC, MBC,
PC) and affinity maturation in comparing the growth rates of three
noncompeting B-cell lineages, in different Ag geometries in BCR binding -
monovalent, bivalent, and cooperative. These results supported the notion
of effective epitope concentration via design of custom immunogens or
cocktail fashion to elicit bnAbs to target the subdominant epitopes of
stem region.

As author simulated 6 consecutive immunizations, is it possible to
predict the optimal number of immunizations for producing antibodies with
high affinity to Ag in general (either HA or stem)?

AUTHOR REPLY: Figure S8 in the supplement shows the evolution of
normalized BCR affinity as a function of exposure to antigen. In the
idealized case of a uniform antigen concentration profile, the affinity
reaches a plateau around the 5th exposure (black dashes). However, the
results display a strong sensitivity to antigen concentration (red and
green dashes), suggesting that the number of exposures needed to elicit
high affinithy antibodies depends on the details of the exposure, such as
epitope concentration, whether the exposure is by vaccination or natural
infection, etc.

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES: line 315.
We note that, in the idealized case of a uniform antigen concentration
profile, the normalized BCR affinities for antigen rise uniformly to a
plateau around the 5th exposure (Fig. S8). However, the results show a
sensitivity to the antigen concentration profile, suggesting that the
number of exposures needed to elicit high-affinity antibodies generally
depends on the details of the exposure, such as epitope concentration, or
whether the exposure is by vaccination or natural infection.

Recently, Fab-dimerized glycan-reactive antibodies were discovered (PMID:
34019795). It may be possible that such constrained Fab structures in
BCRs may preferably bind to the conserved region of subdominant epitopes.

AUTHOR REPLY: We now include the above reference in the introduction section.
MANUSCRIPT CHANGES: (line 77)
The importance of multivalent antigen binding in affinity maturation was
also shown in the discovery of vaccine-induced Fab-dimerized antibodies
directed to HIV glycans [Williams21].

Similarly, antibodies with certain IgG subtype influence the binding to
conserved HA regions is known (PMID: 31100267) but such antibodies
targeting the stem is also possible and MD simulations of linkers could
add value in finding that. 

AUTHOR REPLY: The above study of an interfacial epitope (Watanabe et al.
2019) is already mentioned in the  original manuscript (as ref #9) in the
introduction (lines 38 and 65).  The IgG dependence suggests that the Ab
might protect by ADCC, which is mentioned in the first paragraph on p. 3.
Thus, no manuscript modifications were made in response to this comment.

Finally, the authors can cite and briefly
discuss on this one PMID: 33144374 as it implies the other way around
(about the role GC and competition with high-affinity antibodies).

AUTHOR REPLY: This study used several methods of inhibiting GC formation
in mice to show that the proportion of bnAbs in GC-inhibited mice was not
increased relative to wild-type mice or untreated mice, and thus to argue
that the predominant reason for low bnAb prevalence was not competition,
but other factors, such as immune tolerance. We now refer to it in the
discussion section.

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES: (line 376)
For example, Keating et al. (2020) employed several methods of inhibiting GC
formation in mice to show that the proportion of bnAbs in GC-inhibited
mice was not increased relative to wild-type mice or untreated mice. The
findings were used to argue that the predominant reason for low bnAb
prevalence was not competition between antibody lineages, but other
factors, such as removal of bnAb precursors due to immune tolerance
mechanisms [Keating20].

Minor suggestions:

Figure 1 suggestion, the color gradient may be better if reversed (red for variable and blue for conserved)
AUTHOR REPLY: We changed the color scheme as suggested.

Ab, Abs, Ag – are they defined somewhere?
AUTHOR REPLY:
Abbreviations, including the above, are written out after their first use in the paper.

Line 404, “As done in Ref. 27,” change to “As done in Kepler and Perelson (270)”
AUTHOR REPLY: We made the change, as suggested.

