Reviewer 3
EVALUATION
Please summarize the hypothesis, findings and viewpoint reported.

In this manuscript, Ovchinnikov and Karplus propose an ODE-based model of
the germinal center reaction. They investigate the long lasting question
of the emergence of broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs), in
particular to influenza vaccine. They investigate whether the capacity of
BCR/antibodies to bind two copies of the target antigen (bivalently)
could provide sufficient selective advantage to antibodies that bind the
stem of the influenza hemagglutinin (HA), in comparison to antibodies
binding immunodominant/variable epitopes, that have lower potential to
become broadly neutralizing. The HA stem is of particular interest since
it is mainly conserved between the flu variants and shows potential to
induce bnAbs. The mathematical model is well-designed, and faithfully
follows the main biological mechanisms behind the germinal center
response, which is very well appreciated. The existing ODE models in the
field are usually lacking such biological understanding (for instance a
physiological Tfh selection mechanism), and therefore, this model is an
interesting development to the community. The authors have provided the
code for their model, and validated its behavior with experimental data
reflecting the ‘classical’ germinal center reaction. They compare the
fate of BCR/antibodies recognizing the conserved HA stem in GCs with or
without competition with BCR/antibodies targetting the easier,
immunodominant epitopes, and compare three possibility/hypotheses of
bivalent binding: the BCRs bind monovalently, bivalently, or bivalently
with increased chance to bind with the second arm (cooperation). They
show that with a realistic strength of bivalent cooperation, a low
affinity stem-recognizing can indeed compete with high affinity
immunodominant-recognizing antibodies. It means that vaccine antigens
(like mosaic or nanoparticles), that display patterned antigens, could
indeed support the induction of stem-recognizing bnAbs, provided the
selective advantage is true only for the stem-recognizing BCRs, but not
the immunodominant-recognizing ones. The authors finally study different
effects of occlusion between antibodies targeting the same or different
epitopes, and propose an explanation why repeated vaccination increases
the chances of bnAb induction. Overall, the study is very well explained
for both biologists and modellers, and I will be happy to support
publication.


Please highlight the limitations and strengths.
see above for strengths

Limitations: [S]ome points would need to be solved though:

Major:

The authors focus on bnAbs targetting the stem of HA (conserved
recognition), but repeatedly write in many places that bnAbs are the ones
recognizing the stem (one example is line 57), which is misleading. There
also exist potent bnAbs that recognize regions outside the stem, that can
be mutated between strains (this is not conserved recognition anymore,
but rather promiscuous cross-reactivity). It doesn’t weaken the present
manuscript to explain that other types of bnAbs are possible, and one
type is investigated here.

AUTHOR REPLY: We actually state in the introduction (line 34) that there
are bnAbs recognizing a epitopes at the interface between the HA heads in
the trimer (refs 9 & 10), and in the HA head itself, near the sialic acid
receptor (refs 11 & 12).  However, we agree with the reviewer's point
that the requirement for conservation can be offset by
promiscuity/flexibility, and thus we have modified the introduction
section to address this as follows:

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES (line 45) : We note, however, that strong sequence or
structural conservation of epitopes shared by different antigens is not
an absolute requirement for targeting by bnAbs, as many polyreactive and
self-reactive bnAbs have been discovered that are able to bind divergent
ligands through structural flexibility [Prigent2018,Ovchinnikov2018].


The recent literature in GC simulation and bnAbs has been ignored.
Although this work is new, main references should be at least mentioned,
if not compared (especially as they propose alternative hypotheses). This
includes: 

PMID: 33083735 (Yan & Wang 2020) where cooperative/competitive binding was
modelled in the context of bnAb induction; 

AUTHOR REPLY: We now reference this publication in two places in the
manuscript:

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES (Results line 179):
We note that a similar approach to model clonal competition was used by
Yang & Wang 2020, who introduced interaction parameters to represent Ag
binding interference from Abs produced by earlier generations of B-cells.

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES (Methods line 687):
We note that the occlusion tensor is similar in spirit to the interaction
matrix used by Yan & Wang 2020. However, as these authors had a different
purpose, specifically, to model synergistic vs. antagonistic effects of
Abs derived from previous B cell lineages on B cells in the current
generation, they allowed negative interference values, which are not
physically justifiable in our model, as they would imply creation of Ag.

PMID: 34485861 where different
strategies of combining similar antigens and repeating immunizations was
simulated, suggesting that cross-reactive sequences can already be
amplified by cocktail or/and repeated immunizations as well, 

AUTHOR REPLY: We now refer to this publication in the discussion section:

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES (line 438):
Further, more sophisticated approaches that explicitly model BCR evolution in
sequence space and/or compute BCR/Ag binding affinity using structural models have been developed.
For example, Robert et al (2021)
approximated B-cell and antigen interactions by discretizing the epitope
and paratope on a lattice, and using an empirical inter-residue
potential. The authors were able to capture key properties 
of multi-antigen vaccinations, such as increased cross-reactivity in
cocktail immunizations.


PMID:34917089 where the authors propose that adjusting antigen dose can
improve the survive of bnAb precursors; 

AUTHOR REPLY: We now refer to this publication in the discussion section:
MANUSCRIPT CHANGES (line 400):

[T]he strategy could prove useful to expand the number of initial
low-affinity B-cell lineages targeting rare epitopes against which
high-quality B-cell precursors are rare, such as group I and II influenza
stem epitopes, as also suggested  in a recent computational study of
COVID vaccine efficacy [Garg21].

PMID: 32127549, where the authors propose an ODE model for competing
lineages in GCs in the light of bnAb induction.

AUTHOR REPLY: We now cite this study in the context of our modeling
summary in Results 

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES (line 137): [Q]ualitatively the same results were
obtained by assuming that the amount of T-cell help is equal to BCR
activation by binding to antigen.  However, the reason for the  similar
results could be the simplicity of our model, as we did not consider
multiple distinct T helper cell populations, which were shown to be
important for bnAb elicitation in a recent computational study [Erwin20].

Can the authors discuss a bit more why only the stem-recognizing
BCR/antibodies would get selective advantage, and not the ones
recognizing immunodominant regions? Does it suggest a careful design of
antigen nanoparticles, such that only the stem is spaced at distances
that allow bivalent binding? Or that neighbor antigens should have the
same stem but very different variable regions in a mosaic format, this
could be interesting for antigen design.

AUTHOR REPLY:  We investigated two possible factors that could give
stem-targeting Abs a selective advantage, both of which rely on greater
sequence conservation in the stem: (1) A fraction of existing memory
B-cells (MBCs), with significant affinity for the stem are recruited into
GCs upon infection with influenza; thus stem-specific GC B cells start
marturing at a higher affinity ; in contrast, high-affinity MBC tageting
the head are less likely to be recruited into GCs because the head is too
variable; (2) HA stem epitopes are given as a vaccine at a higher
concentration than the head epitopes, which gives the anti-stem B cells
an activation advantage by lowering the selective pressure. This can be
done either via cocktail design, or by engineering the antigens to remove
or mask the HA head. Both of the vaccine strategies that the reviewer
mentions are expected to be advantageous. We expanded the discussion
section to reflect the reviewer's comment.

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES (line 447) : For the practical purpose of universal
vaccine design, we can summarize the interpretation of our simulation
results as follows.  HA stem epitopes presented on influenza virions are
immuno-subdominant due to an inability to recruit bivalently-binding
BCRs, combined with other causes of subdominance. Even if vaccination with
soluble antigen ectodomains elicited an anti-stem response, it would not
be boosted in secondary GCs formed upon subsequent natural reinfection, 
because the corresponding B-cells would be unable to bind antigen
bivalently. It remains to be shown whether this disadvantage could be
overcome by devising vaccines that present stem epitopes for bivalent
binding, eg, by using engineered immunogens presented on
nanoparticles [Corbett19], possibly in a mosaic format[Cohen21], or
by immunizing with cocktails with very similar stems but diverse
heads[Ives20].


Minor:

In figure 1, the authors show a virus particle with bivalent binding. Do
we actually know if the spikes are spaced enough to allow for bivalent
binding?

AUTHOR REPLY: The average spacing between hemagglutinin spikes on virion
surfaces is estimated from cryo-ET studies to be 14nm, which appears to
permit bivalent binding of antibodies to the HA stem (Harris et al 2013).
However, although the study demonstrates that stem epitopes are
accessible to antibodies, because of rotational averaging, only one Fab
of the stem antibody could be placed with certainty; thus the valency of
antibody binding to the stem is not known. We incorporated this point
into the intriduction (line 72):

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES:
Harris et al. (2013) used cryo-electron tomography (cryo-ET) to estimate the 
average spacing between HA spikes on influenza virions to be 14nm, which
appears to be compatible with bivalent binding of antibodies to the HA
stem, based on the docking of an unrelated mouse IgG antibody.
However, although the study demonstrated that stem epitopes are
accessible to antibodies, because of rotational averaging, only one Fab
of a stem antibody could be placed based on the cryo-ET data; the authors suggested 
that steric constraints may lower binding stoichiometry.


The authors could also add a nanoparticle vaccine antigen as a
teasing for an additional condition where their work applies. 

AUTHOR REPLY: Because such additional subfigure with a nanoparticle would
be substantially similar to the one labeled with "Virus", we did not add one.
However, we modified the label in Fig. 2B to read "Virus or nanoparticle"


In most
figures, it was not 100\% clear what the GC size means, is one curve
meaning one GC originating from only one sequence that mutates, or are
all GC simulations including competing random sequences? This would need
to be clarified. Including a grey or shaded curve showing the total GC
size could also help. 

AUTHOR REPLY:
Each curve corresponds to a single clonal lineage. To clarify this, we
changed the figure labels to read "GC clone size". However, we did not
add a curve representing the total B-cell count, because doing so would
require increasing y-axis limits, which would make it more difficult to
see the difference in  different clones at longer times.

I actually didn’t understand if Tfh help was
simulated at all. Maybe make more clear, it is not important for the
simulations results, but important to have a model that can have
physiological Tfh modulation in the future.

AUTHOR REPLY: Yes, we did use T-cell help in some simulations.  However, 
as we have now clarified in the new version of the manuscript (see
below), our results did not differ qualitatively.  This maybe because of
the simplicity of the T cell model (which used a single T helper cell
type), and because we ultimately used the same experimental data to
adjust the model  to match GC size in single-antigen simulations. The
T-cell model and the related simulations are described in SI section 6.

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES (line 140) :
[I]n the main text, we present simulation results obtained without an
explicit T-cell model. However, several validation calculations performed
with the model are described in Supplementary Material.

Also, I think the present results are really promising in the context of
how to design vaccine antigens with specific distancing between good and
bad epitopes, which could be discussed more extensively as to increase
the interest to the reader.

AUTHOR REPLY: We thank the reviewer for the suggestion, and agree with
the general idea. However due to the coarse-grained nature of the model,
it is difficult to say precisely how similar or dissimilar the epitopes
of interest need to be to optimize for breadth and affinity. We modified
the discussion to reflect the comment, as follows.

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES (line 456) :
While immunization with diverse coronavirus receptor binding domains
presented as mosaic nanoparticles elicited a broad antibody response,
including to strains not present in the vaccine [Cohen21], when this
strategy was applied to a diverse panel of influenza HA spikes, the
resulting breadth was no greater than that observed with immunizations
using homotypic nanoparticle cocktails [Cohen21a]. The interpretation
was that the epitopes in the mosaic panel were too dissimilar to allow
significant bivalent binding, which suggests that careful tuning of
antigen sequence similarity may be needed to elicit broad responses via
a concentration advantage.
