EVALUATION
Please summarize the hypothesis, findings and viewpoint reported.

The authors of the manuscript entitled “A coarse-grained model of
affinity maturation indicates the importance of B-cell receptor avidity
in epitope subdominance” build on the mathematical models provided by
Kepler and Perelson (1993), Oprea and Perelson (1997) and incorporate
binding mode (monovalent vs bivalent, noncooperative vs cooperative) of
recognition on GC size, memory and Plasmablast sizes and affinities of B
cell receptor (BCR) lineages that target immuodominant (ID) vs
subdominant epitopes (SD). In addition to binding avidity, they include
an epitope occlusion parameter (o) as a part of their model accounting
for the presence of competing BCR lineages targeting the ID and SD
epitopes. They also examine if a protocol with multiple (6) immunizations
involving increasing, decreasing, constant and sporadic high
concentrations of epitopes leads to overcoming the sub dominance effect
of epitopes. The model suggests only temporary shifts with no long-term
overcoming of subdominance effects. The authors explain the re-emergence
of epitope sub dominance affects (low affinity, small size of MBC, PC and
GC) when continuously boosted with same pandemic antigen is primarily due
to monovalent recognition of subdominant epitopes. They suggest this
effect can potentially be overcome by utilizing a mixture of drifted
variant HAs that increase the effective concentration of SD stem epitope,
however overall affinity enhancement is predicted to be compromised owing
to increased concentration of SD epitope that explains the lower potency
of antibodies targeting the stem of HA.

Please highlight the limitations and strengths.

The manuscript is in general well written, with assumptions about model
generation, as well results from the model justified and explained
clearly. However, since only a few potential determinant of
immunogenicity are considered, it is unclear how useful the results will
be for the actual design of immunogens to elicit antibodies against
conserved but sub-dominant epitopes.

Please comment on the reported results and data interpretation. 

1. Given the geometric constraints on HA on virions, with low stem
exposure, it is certainly likely that BCRs cannot bind stems bivalently.
However, this constraint does not apply to stem epitopes displayed on
either soluble ectodomains or stabilized stem immunogens (see for example
PMIDs 20615991, 26303961). In addition, even on a given antigen, certain
epitopes are highly immunodominant over other well exposed sites. For
example in the case of the SARS-CoV-2 spike the Receptor Binding Motif
(RBM) on the Receptor Binding Domain is highly immunodominant even though
there is a considerable amount of exposed surface outside of the RBM. A
similar situation prevails on the influenza HA head where there are a few
immunodominant sites.

AUTHOR REPLY: We agree with the reviewer's points, and have incorporated
them in a modified discussion (line 442), as follows:

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES: However, binding valency alone cannot  explain
immunodominance  that arises in vaccination using soluble HA ectodomains
because head and stem epitopes would be expected to have similar antibody
accessibilities. Therefore, other factors, such as antigen plasticity,
low natural germline precursor frequency, repertoire filtering due to
self-reactivity, or reduced T-cell help [Erwin20], must also contribute.
For example, Keating et al. 2020 employed several methods of partially
inhibiting GC formation in mice, and showed that the proportion of bnAbs
in GC-inhibited mice was not increased relative to wild-type mice or
untreated mice. These findings were used to argue that the predominant
reason for low bnAb prevalence was not competition between antibody
lineages, but rather other factors, such as removal of bnAb precursors due to
immune tolerance mechanisms [Keating20]. Such factors could also explain
why antibodies produced in natural infections such as SARS-Cov-2 tend to
target relatively few antigenic epitopes, despite high overall antigen
accessibility [Barnes20].


2. The major conclusion of the manuscript is that bivalent and
cooperative binding are the primary factors that determine
immunogenicity. However, one would assume that epitope accessibility is
more important than bivalent binding, as unless an epitope is available
for at least monovalent binding, it is unlikely to be immunogenic.
Bivalency is then a higher order effect which might be responsible for
differences in antigenicity between equally accessible epitopes.
Similarly antigen stability must also be an important determinant.
Rapidly degraded or aggregation prone antigen is unlikely to be
immunogenic.

AUTHOR REPLY: We generally agree with the reviewer's point, and we
incorporated this comment into the last paragraph of the discussion
section. We do believe valency differences specifically between anti-head
and anti-stem antibodies of HA are important, as cryo-electron tomography
data of Harris et al. (2013) suggests that the majority of HA stems on
virions are accessible to monovalent binding by antibody C179 (at least
in the absence of anti-head Abs).

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES (line 414): The model used here relies on simple
assumptions to show that for diffent epitopes with similar
accessibilities, which can be interpreted as similar effective
concentrations, immunosubdominance can be explained by differences in the
antibody binding valency. This scenario appears applicable to the case of 
natural immunity against influenza hemagglutinins, as Harris et al. 2013
have shown that most of the trimeric HA spikes are able to bind an
anti-stem antibody. The arrangement of the spikes makes it likely that
bivalent binding would be disfavored by energetic
strain [Harris13,Amitai20]. A related scanario applies in the case of HIV,
in which low spike density makes bivalent binding unlikely, but
antibodies engineered with long linkers  that could bind the same
trimeric spike bivalently exhibited >100-fold greater potency
[Galimidi15]. 


3. One of the limitations of the present study is that it is hard to
translate some of the simulation results into testable experiments. For
example, a large increase in immunogenicity is seen with a twofold
increase in antigen amount (Fig 7 vs Fig 4). Wouldn’t this depend on the
absolute amounts involved as well as antigen stability, rigidity etc?

AUTHOR REPLY: The reviewer is correct.  With respect to stability and
rigidity,  we did not consider either peoperty in our study, in part
because the binding affinity model does not have a structural component. 
We now mention this in the discussion (see below). With respect to the
total amount of antigen, our model is qualitative because it does not
incorporate a saturating antigen concentration, either directly, or by
modeling immune complexes or FDCs, although this can be changed in future
versions.  Thus, at present, the results could apply to a scenario where
the antigen amount is low, such that doubling the antigen amount could 
translate into large differences in B-cell activation.

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES:
line 444 :
However, BCR/Ag models at all-atom resolution [Conti21,Sprenger21],
which may be parametrized to account for antigen stability and rigidity,
may ultimately be required to design actual vaccine antigens and their
cocktails.

line 324: We caution, however, that this result should be considered
qualitative because our model does not incorporate a saturating Ag
concentration, which could be done in future versions, eg, by explicitly
modeling immune complexes or FDCs. Thus, the strong dependence of the
B-cell response on the Ag concentration is most likely relevant in a
scenario where the total antigen amount is low.

4. A major determinant of immunogenicity is the adjuvant. It would be
useful if the authors could mention in the Discussion whether/how they
think such effects can be incorporated into their model

AUTHOR REPLY: We now mention incorporating adjuvant in the discussion
section (line 436) :

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES: The effects of adjuvants on B-cell activation can be
modeled by parametrizing the B-cell activation function h (see Methods)
to include adjuvant concentration, or by incorporating the latter into a
T helper cell model. Similar ideas could be used to include the effects
of soluble signaling species, such as interleukins or Calcium ions.

5. In Figure 1 which subtypes of influenza A were examined and over how many years?

AUTHOR REPLY:  We have modified the manuscript to include this
clarification. The caption of Fig. 1 now includes:

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES: Sequences of avian, swine and human influenza type A 
spike proteins spanning the years 1918--2019 and subtypes 1-18 were
downloaded from the NIH influenza research database

6. Lines 73-74. The actual benefits conferred by mosaic antigens vs
cocktails are debatable, in most cases differences are quite small, both
for influenza and SARS-CoV-2. 

AUTHOR REPLY: We have modified penultimate paragraph in the discussion
section (line 406) to incorporate the reviewer's comment, as follows

MANUSCRIPT CHANGES: We note that multi-antigen vaccination cocktails have
been designed, in which the epitopes that are conserved between the
antigens are at effectively higher concentration than variable epitopes
[Kanekiyo2019,Cohen2021,Ives2020]. In particular, mosaic
nanoparticles appear to elicit a broader antibody response in animal
experiments, compared to cocktail immunizations [Kanekiyo2019,Cohen2021].
However, it remains to be shown whether such vaccines will lead to
improved protection against highly mutable pathogens in the clinic.

